---
title: HUGE Configuration Functions
description: One day they'll be back... pinking promise.
draft: true
---

# Configuration Functions

## TL;DR: Use function's returned value in HUGE's config. `slides: carousel/GetHomeSlides()`

### A script!

Slide data will be dynamically generated by a Hugo returning partial.

```yaml
# _huge/config/scripts.yaml
scripts:
- path: js/carousel/index.js
  params:
    slides: carousel/GetHomeSlides()
```

```
{{/* layouts/partials/carousel/GetHomeSlides.html 
{{ $slides := slice }}
{{ with site.Home.Params.slides }}
  {{ $slides = . }}
{{ end }}
{{ return $slides }}
```

### Media settings!

imgix domain will be dynamically generated by a Hugo returning partial which tests the environment.

```yaml
# _huge/config/media.yaml
imgix: 
  domain: functions/GetImgixDomain()
```

```html
{{/* layouts/partials/functions/GetImgixDomain.html */}}
{{ $domain := "staging.imgix.net" }}
{{ if partial "huge/env/IsProduction" . }}
  {{ $domain = "live.imgix.net" }}
{{ end }}
{{ return $domain }}
```
## Configuration functions are HUGE!

User can use the value returned by a function to populate any key from the HUGE Config files!

To do so, one must use a string starting with the path to the function relative to the partials directory and append `()`
```yaml
key: path_to_partial()
```
- `carousel/GetHomeSlides()` will be replaced by the value returned by `layouts/partials/carousel/GetHomeSlides.html`
- `my-config-funcs/imgix_domain()` will be replaced by the value returned by `layouts/partials/my-config-funcs/imgix_domain.html`

### A few things of note:

1. Extension is required only if not `HTML` as Hugo partial API always falls back on `.html` when extension is omitted.
2. Currently `.` other than extension delimiters are not accepted in configuration functions filenames: `my-config-funcs/imgix.domain()` will fail the build.
3. If no partial matching the path is found, HUGE will break the build with a message pointing to the not found partial.

For a partial located at `/layouts/partials/logic/GetThings.html`
| filepath | ok/no | reference | ok/no
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
`/layouts/partials/logic/GetThings.html` |  ✅  | `logic/GetThings()` | ✅ 
`/layouts/partials/logic/GetThings.html` | ✅  | `logic/GetThings.html()` | ✅ 
`/layouts/partials/logic/GetThings.html` | ✅  | `layouts/logic/GetThings()` | 🚫
`/layouts/partials/logic/GetThings.dev` | ✅  | `logic/GetThings()` | 🚫
`/layouts/partials/logic/GetThings.dev` | ✅ | `logic/GetThings.dev()` | ✅ 
`/layouts/partials/logic/imgix.media.html` | 🚫 | `logic/imgix.media()` | 🚫

